http://leon1789.perso.sfr.fr/avisynth/SoftSharpen/SoftSharpen.html

SoftSharpen(Video, "Blur", "Sharp", "DeNois", "DeNoisT", "Move", "Gain",
            "DeBan", "DeRin", "DeBl", "DeInt", "Blend", "FPS", "AA", "Line", 
            "DCT", "Overlap", "Preset", "Fast", "Width", "Height", 
            "Verbose", "Show")

version 8.8

Filters required: MSharpen, ASharp, BlindPP (exported from DGDecode or
mpeg2dec3 for example), Deen, GradFun2db, MaskTools (v1 or better v2),
DCTFilter, TDeint, MVTools2 and RemoveGrain.

Thanks a lot to Subbat, BigDid and SG1, also Manao, Jabali, Gavino, and indirectly Lato, FuPP. 

The first parameter is binding because it indicates the video to process ! :-)

The following parameters are all optional. 

-- Blur (integer between 0 and 30) indicates the level of blur for 
objects moving: 0 for no blur, 15 for a medium process, 30 for the
strongest one. The compressibility of the video increases when the
value of Blur increases. 
By default, Blur=15

-- Sharp (float between 0 and 70) indicates the level of sharpness
for static objects: 0 for no sharp, 10 for a weak process, 
20 for a medium one, 40 for the strongest one. The compressibility of 
the video decreases when the value of Sharp increases. 
The fractional part (between 0.00 and 0.99) of Sharp indicates the
threshold of the process: the smaller this value is, the more the
process is selective (and so limits the loss of compressibility).
By default, Sharp=21.0

RQ: a value of Sharp adapted to Video is obtained by the function 
EstimSoftSharpen, in an EstimSoftSharpen.txt file created after its 
execution on the video. In fact, EstimSoftSharpen measures the motion
of the video.

-- Gain (float between 0 and 255) indicates a level of adaptative gain.
By default, Gain=0 (no process)

-- DeNois (integer between 0 and 35) indicates the level of spatial
denoising: 0 for no denoising, 4 for a weak one, 10 for a strong one. 
The compressibility of the video increases when the value of Debr increases. 
By default, DeNois=8 

-- DeNoisT (float between 0 and 255):
the floor of DeNoisT indicates the level of temporal denoising: 
0 for no denoising, 4 for a weak one, 10 for a strong one. 
The compressibility of the video increases when the value of DeNoisT increases.
The fractional part (between 1 and 3) of DeNoisT indicates the used process: 
1 for MDegrain1, 2 for MDegrain2, 3 for MDegrain3.
The quality increases when this fractional part increases.
By default, DeNoisT=DeNois with MDegrain1

-- Move (integer between 1 and 255) indicates the level of movement 
detection. The lower the value of Move, the more sensitive is the
detection and the more important the blur part of the video will be.
The compressibility of the video decreases when the value of Move increases.
Put Move=0 to disable analysis of movement. 
By default, Move=35

-- DeBan (positive float) indicates the level for debanding: 
0 for no correction, 1.2 for an average one, 2.4 for a strong one. 
By default, DeBan=0 

-- DeRin (integer between 0 and 255) indicates the level for deringing
(ringing may appear after a strong sharpness): 0 for no correction, 
6 for an average one, 16 for a strong one. 
By default, DeRin=Sharp/5 

-- DeBl (integer between 0 and 255) indicates the level for deblocking
(for example, blocking might appear after a strong temporel denoising): 
0 for no correction, 6 for an average one, 16 for a strong one. 
By default, DeBl=0 (no process)

-- Blend (integer between 0 and 20) indicates the level against blend:
0 for no correction, 20 for an weak one, 2 for a strong one. 
By default, Blend=0 (no process)

-- DeInt (boolean) for desinterlacing.
By default, DeInt=false (no process)

-- AA (boolean) allows an experimantal anti-aliasing.
By default, AA=false (no process)

-- Line (float) increases dark in lines.
The floor of line indicates the level of darkness for line.
The fraction part of Line indicates the thinness for line. 
Especialy useful for anim.
By default, Line=0.0 (no process)

-- DCT (integer between 0 et 14) zeroes several diagonals in the quantization
matrix, in order to increase the compressibility of the video :
0 for no process, 14 for the process max.
By default, DVT=5

-- Fast (true/false) indicates the speed of the process.
For SoftSharpen, Fast=false by default (slow, but better process)
For EstimSoftSharpen, Fast=true by default (just for analysis) 

-- Preset (which can be "film" , "static video"="low motion", 
"fast video"="high motion", "anim", "vhs", "maxi" , "light") indicates
a typical configuration: the script consequently fixes the values of
Blur, Sharp, Move, DeNois, DeNoisT, DeBan and Debl. 
Usually, the video compressibility is preserved by the corresponding preset.
By default, any preset is active.

RQ: a value of Blur, Sharp, Move, DeNois, DeNoisT, DeBan, Debl
overrides the Preset. That allows the adjustment of one or more
parameters without changing the remaining of the preset. 

-- Width and Height (positive integers) are to be specified only in
the case of video resizing. 

-- FPS (positive float) indicates the number of Frame Per Second.

-- Overlap (integer) is an option for compatibility with avisynth MT.
In this case, use the values 2, or 4, or 8.
By defaut, Overlap=0 

-- Verbose (true/false) displays some constants of the function SoftSharpen. 
By default, Verbose=false of course. 

-- Show (true/false) allows colouring of the zones processed by
SoftSharpen: sharpness is in green, blur in blue, and denoising in
red. This idea is borrowed from HybriFuPP.avsi written by FuPP. 
By default, Show=false of course. 
